.. _whatsnew_100b:

1.0.0b (expected September 30, 2019)
------------------------------------

This is the first 1.0 beta release.


API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~
* Add required argument interval_label to all model functions in
  :py:mod:`solarforecastarbiter.reference_forecasts.models`. (:issue:`185`)

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Add command line interface option for reports. (:issue:`168`)

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* Fix whats new documentation (:issue:`143`)
* Fix :py:func:`~solarforecastarbiter.reference_forecasts.main.run_persistence`
  start, end time issue. (:issue:`147`)
* Fix issue with negative GHI forecasts derived from GFS model due to
  complications with unmixing interval averages. (:issue:`144`)
* When computing reference forecast issue time of day, account for
  *run_length* when adjusting UTC to local time zone. (:issue:`140`)
* Add lower and upper limits to clearsky index calculations in
  :py:func:`~solarforecastarbiter.reference_forecasts.persistence.persistence_scalar_index`
  function. Reduces large errors near sunrise and sunset. (:issue:`107`)
* Address numpy, pandas deprecations. (:pull:`156`)
* Remove TODO, EXAMPLE text from reports template in favor of GitHub
  Issues. (:issue:`167`)
* Account for timezone in metrics/report generation. (:issue:`164`)
* Account for different timezones in
  :py:func:`~solarforecastarbiter.io.utils.adjust_timeseries_for_interval_label`
  with pandas >= 0.25.1. (:issue:`173`)
* Bigger metrics graphics to avoid (but not yet totally prevent) label overlap.
  (:issue:`163`)
* Handle empty observation or forecast in current report metrics calc
  (:pull:`178`)
* Accept string or timelike objects to
  :py:func:`~solarforecastarbiter.io.api.APISession.get_forecast_values` and
  :py:func:`~solarforecastarbiter.io.api.APISession.get_observation_values`
  (:issue:`180`)
* Fix return/assignment of None in
  `~solarforecastarbiter.validation.tasks.daily_single_observation_validation`
  and
  `~solarforecastarbiter.reference_forecasts.main.make_latest_nwp_forecasts`.
  (:issue:`182`)
* Fix failure to pass user-specified limits to
  `~solarforecastarbiter.validation.validator.check_irradiance_limits_QCRad`.
  (:issue:`182`)
* NWP reference forecasts now account for interval label. This also fixes
  errors when computing forecasts with ``interval_label='ending'``.
  (:issue:`185`)

Testing
~~~~~~~


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Will Holmgren (:ghuser:`wholmgren`)
* Leland Boeman (:ghuser:`lboeman`)
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Tony Lorenzo (:ghuser:`alorenzo175`)
* Justin Sharp (:ghuser:`MrWindAndSolar`)
* Aidan Tuohy
* Adam Wigington (:ghuser:`awig`)
* David Larson (:ghuser:`dplarson`)
